
## Build your personalized avatar

### Introduction to Avatars for Teams

Avatars for Microsoft Teams enables you to build connections in events
without turning your video on. Include more people in the
conversation--- whether they need a break due to video fatigue or just
feel more comfortable with their video off. Add a new layer of choice to
your events.

- **Choose how you're represented** --
    Select from hundreds of combinations to customize an avatar that
    represents your physical attributes, wardrobe, accessories, and
    more. Choose how you express yourself with reactions. Save up to
    three avatars for different event types, such as casual,
    professional, or day-to-day.

- **Build connections your way** -- In addition to joining an event
    with your camera on and off, you can also join with an avatar.
    Combat video fatigue and include more people in the conversation,
    even those who are less comfortable with their video on. Avatars for
    Microsoft Teams gives you that much-needed camera break while still
    allowing you to collaborate effectively.

- **Stay in Teams -** Available within the Microsoft Teams experience.
    Once your avatar is created, it's just a few clicks away.

## How to start customizing avatars

You can access avatar customization from the following entry points:

- Mesh app on PC

- Mesh app on Quest

You can create up to three different versions of your avatar to show off
your personas in Mesh experiences.

To create a new avatar, select **+** in the bottom right corner of your
Mesh App. 

![](media/end-user-guide/image028.png)


You'll be asked to select a base avatar to start creating.

Select your desired avatar and click **Use Avatar**, and you're ready to
start customizing your avatar.

## Customizing your avatars

Once you're inside of an event, hover over your **profile bubble** and
select **Customize** to start customizing your avatar.

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image018.png)

There's a horizontal toolbar with five options: **Body, Face, Hair,
Appearance,** and **Wardrobe.**

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image019.png)

The initial screen shows you the **Body** section. Note there are three
buttons in the far left-side column: **Body Shape**, **Prosthetic**, and
**Skin tone**. For **Body Shape, Face Shape,** and other subsections, we
offer presets for quick customization. Users can fine-tune a preset by
clicking the **sliders** button.

### Avatar body shape

To the left of the avatar, there's a palette with various shape options.
Select any shape option to see how your avatar would look.  

**Note:** Selecting the **slider** button will customize your current
body shape. You can begin by selecting a body shape preset and click the
**slider** button to fine tune it.

#### To fine tune avatar Body Shape

1. Click the **sliders** button.

    
2. Drag the **sliders** for the various body areas to adjust their
    proportions. To see more options, use the arrows below the
    sliders.

    ![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically
    generated](media/end-user-guide/image021.png)
3. Do one of the following:

    - If you're satisfied with your choices, click **Apply**.

    - If you want to abandon your choices, click **Discard**.

        Selecting either button returns you to the main **Body Shape**
        dialog box.

#### Adjust Skin Tone

Click the **Skin Tone** button in the **Body** tab. Select a tone or
adjust it with the slider at the bottom.



#### Change facial features

Select the **Face** tab and then the **Face Shape** option. Select one
of the default shapes and then click the **sliders** to customize facial
features.

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image023.png)
We've added many facial features for fine-tuning with **sliders**, such
as **Cranium** width/height, **Cheek Bone** width and fullness, **Cheek
Fullness**, and so much more. These customizable options offer even more
precision when crafting your avatar. Be sure to click through each page
to see all the options for **Face Shape** customization!


Under the **Face** setting, the left menu bar shows the five
customizable subsections that are related to the face. Click the
**Eyes** button.

In the **Eyes** palette, select from various eye shapes until you have
the one you want. Select the **Custom Color Wheel** button and choose
your favorite eye color.

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically generated with
medium confidence](media/end-user-guide/image025.png)

Tip:** *Select a color preset you like and use the slider bar at the
bottom to adjust for lightness or darkness**.***

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image026.png)
You can continue to adjust facial features using similar steps in the
other sections in the left vertical menu, including **Nose**, **Mouth**,
and **Ears**. Choose a feature, select the one you want from the
palette, use the **sliders** to fine-tune, and then **Save** or
**Discard**.

#### Change Hair

Now go to the **Hair** section, where you can customize your avatar's
**Hair Style**, **Facial Hair**, and **Eyebrow(s)**. With **Hair
Style**, you can filter for short or long hair styles by clicking on the
filter button as shown below:

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image027.png)
Once you've customized your avatar, click **Save.**

#### Change Appearance

Apply makeup and **wrinkles** to your face in the **Appearance** setting
by adjusting the following: **Lip Color**, **Blush**, **Eyeshadow**,
**Lashline**, **Face Lines**, or **Bindi**.

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically generated with medium confidence](media/end-user-guide/image028.png)

#### Change your wardrobe

In the **Wardrobe** section, you're provided a wide selection of **Underlayer**, **Outerwear**, **Headwear**, and **Eyewear** to dress your avatar.

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically generated](media/end-user-guide/image029.png)

### Useful customization tools

#### Filters

To help you quickly find your desired styles, filtering is available for
the **Hair, Underlayer, Outerwear,** and **Headgear** sections:

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically generated](media/end-user-guide/image030.png)

#### Zoom in/out and rotate your avatar preview

Within the avatar customizer, you can change your avatar's preview by
doing one of the following:

- With your left mouse button, click and drag to rotate your avatar
    preview to see how it looks from different angles.

- With the scroll wheel of your mouse, zoom in or out on your avatar
    preview.

**Congrats! Your unique personalized avatar is now ready to attend your
events.**



## Mesh UI & user controls

### Mesh Dashboard

The Mesh Dashboard displays all Mesh events available to you. The Mesh
Dashboard is the main interface you can use to explore what Mesh has to
offer.

The Dashboard is viewable using the Mesh App on PC or Quest.

#### Dashboard vertical navigation bar

On the left-side vertical navigation bar, there are mainly three types
of items. From here you can open the **Home** view, see your Teams
events, or browse and join event(s) and events in Mesh worlds that have
been set up by your IT admin.

The **Home** button at the top left shows you the events happening now
and upcoming events for all worlds you have access to.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image038.png)
Select a pinned world in the left-side vertical navigation to see events
for that specific world. All pinned worlds will be visible in this left
navigation beneath the **Home** button.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image039.png)
**Note:** On the Dashboard, the changes from upcoming to live events are
updated automatically in the **Events** view.

#### All Mesh Worlds

The **All Mesh Worlds** button can be found in the lower left corner of
the Dashboard. Use this button to explore Mesh worlds that are available
to you. Also, you can choose to **Pin** or **Unpin** a Mesh World to the
left vertical navigation bar of the Dashboard.

![](media/end-user-guide/image040.png)

### Move around in your event

#### On PC

You can look around, walk, run, teleport around, or just sit at the
table with other avatars. To move around, press the **WASD** keys.

![A picture containing text, screenshot, font Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image041.jpeg)
**Other keyboard controls:**

- **Q** to rotate left

- **E** to rotate right

- Press and hold on **W, S, A,** or **D** to leave your chair when
    sitting

- **C** to toggle between direct view and avatar view (1st and 3rd
    person views)

Here are some keyboard shortcuts for moving around in your event:

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image042.png)

#### On your Quest headset

You can look around, walk, run, turn, teleport around, or just sit at
the table with other avatars all with the Quest controllers!

## Mesh controls overview

Now that you're in an event, explore the interface to see what controls
are available. To the left, we have the **System Menu** with
**Dashboard**, **Settings**, **Feedback**, and **Quit Mesh**. The app
bar in the middle holds the **Participants**, **Selfie**, and
**Reactions** buttons. The **Profile** button in the lower right corner
holds the **Customize** button for customizing your avatars.

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically generated](media/end-user-guide/image043.png)

### Adjust settings

The **Settings** menu helps you to set up the app according to your
preferences. There are many options available here. It can be accessed
directly from the bottom left menu button of the Mesh menu bar.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated](media/end-user-guide/image044.png)

### Participants

The **Participants** button will show the number of participants in an
event.

### Avatar selfies and photos

Take a selfie of yourself with friends or snap a picture from the POV of
your avatar!\
\
![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically generated](media/end-user-guide/image045.png)
**Note:** Avatars nametags are turned off by default when taking a photo
or selfie. You can still turn on the nametag by clicking on **...** in
the App bar.

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image046.png)
Clicking on the photo icon in the menu will take you to the SharePoint
folder where your photos are stored.

### React with emotes

In the app bar, you can trigger **Reactions**, that cause your avatar to
react with body gestures as well as emotes.

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image047.png)

### Profile

The **Profile** button in the lower right corner gives you access to
your personal details and avatar customization options.

![A screenshot of a video game Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image048.png)
Select **Customize** to fine tune your Avatar's appearance while in an
event!

![](media/end-user-guide/image049.png)

### Nametag and contact card

To find out about another participant in your event, click the nametag
above an avatar, and then select the **Contact card** icon.

![](media/end-user-guide/image050.png)

## Feedback for Mesh?

We would love for you to provide us with feedback and bug reports!

For documentation feedback, click this link: [*Mesh TAP Documentation Feedback*](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbRzFnuK83QapOmAXDLf57ZE9UMzdVSlNDU0NRSFozSlNXWDBNSUhDNDYzQy4u).

For product feedback, use the **Feedback** button inside your Mesh
experience. This ensures that your feedback and bug reporting will be
triaged and incorporated quickly.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/end-user-guide/image051.png)
If you're not able to give feedback or report bugs using the
**Feedback** button in the Mesh App, you can chat with your Microsoft
partners in Teams, or contact your Microsoft partners directly.

## Known issues & limitations

Mesh is still in development, with new features and updates to existing
features ongoing. As an EAP partner, you may find that some features or
experiences are not polished or fully functional.

*See the latest Release Notes for details on new features, feature
updates, known issues, and resolved known issues.*

If you find new issues, file a bug, or speak to your Microsoft partners.